Add fetching data intro (#402)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/integration_fetching_data.md

# Push vs Poll

APIs come in many different shapes and forms but at its core they fall in two categories: push and poll.

With push, we subscribe to an API and we get notified by the API when new data is available. It pushes the changes to us. Push APIs are great because they consume less resources. When a change happens, we can get notified of a change and don't have to re-fetch all the data and find changes. Because entities can be disabled, you should make sure that your entity subscribes inside the `async_added_to_hass` callback and unsubscribes inside `async_will_remove_from_hass`.

With polling, we will fetch the latest data from the API at a specified interval. Your integration will then supply this data to its entity, which is written to Home Assistant.

Because polling is so common, Home Assistant by default assumes that your entity is based on polling. If this is not the case, return `False` from the `should_poll` property. When you disable polling, your integration will be responsible for calling one of the methods to indicate to Home Assistant that it's time to write the entity state to Home Assistant:

> - `Entity.schedule_update_ha_state(update_data=False)`/`Entity.async_schedule_update_ha_state(update_data=False)` will schedule an update of the entity. If `update_data` is set to `True`, Home Assistant will call your entities update method (`update()`/`async_update()`) prior to writing the state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Entity.schedule_update_ha_state(force_refresh=False)`/`Entity.async_schedule_update_ha_state(force_refresh=False)` will schedule an update of the entity. If `force_refresh` is set to `True`, Home Assistant will call your entities update method (`update()`/`async_update()`) prior to writing the state.
```

> - `Entity.async_write_ha_state()` is an async callback that will write the state to the state machine within yielding to the event loop. It will not call your entity update method.

Reviewer 2: A clarification when to use which one (and with which parameters) would be helpful; when should `async_write_ha_state` be preferred over `schedule_update_ha_state` if no `update()` is needed?

Author: yeah, and if you're already in async land.

# Polling API endpoints

> We're going to explain a few different API types ones here and the best way to integrate them in Home Assistant. Note that some integrations will encounter a combination of the ones below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are now going to explain different types of polling APIs and the best way to integrate them in Home Assistant. Note that some integrations will encounter a combination of the ones below.
```

> We're going to explain a few different API types ones here and the best way to integrate them in Home Assistant. Note that some integrations will encounter a combination of the ones below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're going to explain a few different API types here and the best way to integrate them in Home Assistant. Note that some integrations will encounter a combination of the ones below.
```

> ## One API endpoint with all the data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Coordinated, single API poll for data for all entities
```

> This API will have a single method to fetch data for all the entities that you have in Home Assistant. In this case we'll want to poll this endpoint on an interval and then let entities know as soon as new data is available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API will have a single method to fetch data for all the entities that you have in Home Assistant. In this case we will want to have a single periodical poll on this endpoint, and then let entities know as soon as new data is available for them.
```

> Home Assistant provides a Data Update Coordinator class to help you manage this as efficient as possible.

Reviewer 2: Link to API docs?

```suggestion
Home Assistant provides a DataUpdateCoordinator class to help you manage this as efficiently as possible.
```

```python
import logging

from homeassistant.helpers import debounce, entity
from homeassistant.helpers.update_coordinator import DataUpdateCoordinator, UpdateFailed

_LOGGER = logging.getLogger(__name__)

> async def create_coordinator(api):

Reviewer 2: There is no mention who is supposed to initialize the coordinator. Is this a magic method/fixture that is used for entities automatically?

    async def async_update_data():
        """Fetch data from API endpoint."""
        try:
            await api.fetch_data()
        except ApiError:

>             raise UpdateFailed

Reviewer 2: API-wise, IMO, it would be much nicer to simply let the update method to raise any exception to be handled accordingly by the coordinator? This would simplify implementations by not forcing developers to remember to do the import and do a try-catch for their update code.

Author: We want to be able to distinguish between expected and unexpected errors. Unexpected errors will be logged with a stack trace.

    coordinator = DataUpdateCoordinator(
        hass,
        _LOGGER,
        # Name of the data. For logging purposes.
        "sensor",
        async_update_data,
        # Polling interval. Will only be polled if there are subscribers.

>         timedelta(seconds=30),

Reviewer 2: It would be better to use kwargs to define the parameters, being self-documenting and all that jazz (while also raising an error if the parameters happen to change at some point in the future).

        # Debouncer to limit request_refresh
        debounce.Debouncer(
            hass,
            _LOGGER,
            # Timeout to wait between refreshes
            0.3,
            # When a refresh is requested, should we refresh right await and then wait
            # Or should we wait and refresh at the end of timeout.

>             True

Reviewer 2: Same as above here. Especially the comment of the last parameter will be confusing for future developers (if they keep copying that around instead of using kwargs).

        ),
    )

    # Fetch initial data so we have data when entities subscribe
    await coordinator.async_refresh()

    return coordinator

class MyEntity(entity.Entity):

    def __init__(self, coordinator):
        self.coordinator = coordinator

    @property
    def should_poll(self):
        """No need to poll. Coordinator notifies entity of updates."""
        return False

    @property
    def available(self):
        """Return if entity is available."""

>         return not self.coordinator.failed_last_update

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        return not self.coordinator.last_update_failed
```

or maybe even skip the negation and use `updated_successfully` or similar to simplify this?

    async def async_added_to_hass(self):
        """When entity is added to hass."""
        self.coordinator.async_add_listener(
            self.async_write_ha_state
        )

    async def async_will_remove_from_hass(self):
        """When entity will be removed from hass."""
        self.coordinator.async_remove_listener(
            self.async_write_ha_state
        )

    async def async_turn_on(self, **kwargs):
        """Turn the light on.

        Example method how to request data updates.
        """
        # Do the turning on.
        # ...

        # Update the data
        await self.coordinator.async_request_refresh()

    async def async_update(self):
        """Update the entity.

        Only used by the generic entity update service.
        """
        await self.coordinator.async_request_refresh()
```

> ## One API endpoint per device

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Separate polling for each individual entity
```

> If your one API endpoint is mapping to multiple entities, please see the previous section. Even if there are many endpoints, it's best to use a coordinator per endpoint to manage this data.

Reviewer: "If your one API endpoint is mapping to multiple entities" doesn't go along with the header.

Author: I've updated the text here. I wanted to clarify that if an API endpoint is for a single device but still results in multiple entities, use a DataUpdateCoordinator.

> If your one API endpoint is mapping to multiple entities, please see the previous section. Even if there are many endpoints, it's best to use a coordinator per endpoint to manage this data.

Reviewer 2: I think this raises more questions than it answers. Maybe we should simply have a warning here pointing towards using coordinator always, assuming that is the preferred way to go?

> If you can map exactly one endpoint to a single device, you can fetch the data for this entity inside the `update()`/`async_update()` methods. Make sure polling is set to `True` and Home Assistant will call this method regularly.

Reviewer 2: This is confusing, as those methods were mentioned also earlier..

> If your entities need to fetch data before being written to Home Assistan for the first time, pass `True` to the `add_entities` method: `add_entities([MyEntity()], True)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your entities need to fetch data before being added to Home Assistant for the first time, pass `update_before_add=True` to the `add_entities` call in your `async_setup_entry`: `add_entities([MyEntity()], update_before_add=True)`.
```

> If your entities need to fetch data before being written to Home Assistan for the first time, pass `True` to the `add_entities` method: `add_entities([MyEntity()], True)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your entities need to fetch data before being written to Home Assistant for the first time, pass `True` to the `add_entities` method: `add_entities([MyEntity()], True)`.
```

You can control the polling interval for your integration by defining a `SCAN_INTERVAL` constant in your platform.

```python
from datetime import timedelta

SCAN_INTERVAL = timedelta(seconds=5)

> ```

Reviewer 2: A warning telling that lower is not always necessarily better?

# Request Parallelism

> This is an advanced topic.

> Home Assistant has built-in logic to make sure that integrations don't hammer services/APIs and consume all available resources in Home Assistant. This logic is built around limiting the number of parallel requests. This logic is automatically used during service calls and entity updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Home Assistant has built-in logic to make sure that integrations do not hammer APIs and consume all available resources in Home Assistant. This logic is built around limiting the number of parallel requests. This logic is automatically used during service calls and entity updates.
```

> Home Assistant controls the number of parallel requests by maintaining a [semaphore](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-sync.html#asyncio.Semaphore). For example, if the semaphore allows 1 parallel connection, updates and service calls will wait if one is in progress. If the value is 0, the integration is itself responsible for limiting the number of parallel requests if necessary.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit confusing. From the source code it looks like most of the times this is used like a boolean instead of a limiter. Am I understanding it correctly, that an integration could define `PARALLEL_UPDATES=10` to allow ten concurrent updates? Is this capped per entity? Platform? Integration?

```suggestion
Home Assistant controls the number of parallel updates (calls to `update()`) by maintaining a [semaphore](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-sync.html#asyncio.Semaphore) per integration. For example, if the semaphore allows 1 parallel connection, updates and service calls will wait if one is in progress. If the value is 0, the integration is itself responsible for limiting the number of parallel requests if necessary.
```

> The default value for parallel requests for a platform is decided based on the first entity that is added to Home Assistant. It's 1 if the entity defines the `async_update` method, else it's 0. (this is a legacy decision)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value for parallel requests for a platform is decided based on the first entity that is added to Home Assistant. It's 0 if the entity defines the `async_update` method, else it's 1. (this is a legacy decision)
```

> Platforms can override teh default by defining the `PARALLEL_UPDATES` constant in their platform (ie `rflink/light.py`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platforms can override the default by defining the `PARALLEL_UPDATES` constant in their platform (ie `rflink/light.py`).
```

> Platforms can override teh default by defining the `PARALLEL_UPDATES` constant in their platform (ie `rflink/light.py`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Platforms can override the default by defining `PARALLEL_UPDATES` constant in their platform (see `rflink/light.py` for an example).
```

        hass,
        _LOGGER,
        # Name of the data. For logging purposes.
        name="sensor",
        update_method=async_update_data,
        # Polling interval. Will only be polled if there are subscribers.
        update_interval=timedelta(seconds=30),
        # Debouncer to limit request_refresh

>         request_refresh_debouncer=debounce.Debouncer(

Reviewer 2: Is this parameter worth mentioning in the example case? Looks like there is a default debouncer with some sane defaults already in place, so perhaps just mention it in the text for those special cases where adjustments are necessary?
